# Reflection Essay

**Discuss one challenge you overcame during your academic development. What was the challenge, was
it technical, nontechnical, or both, and how did you overcome it?**

One challenge I overcame during my academic development was learning persistence and that was more
so nontechnical. When I was in high school, I remember losing points on running the mile because I
slowed down at the finish line. Just because things are coming close to end doesn’t mean it’s time
to get comfortable. I use that story to keep me going project after project and class after class,
knowing that I have to keep running in school until I’m past the finish line. Not just the next
assignment, test, or project. <br /><br />

**Discuss a situation where you worked with a team. How would you describe yourself as a teammate?
Where can you improve your team skills? Be specific.**

A time where I worked in a big group project was for my Object-Oriented Programming class. We had a
semester long project and a team of five, so I had to learn to be a leader. In doing so I learned
taking and giving constructive criticism in a kind manner and helping those where they need it. As a
teammate I am very forward thinking and future proofing. I have good management skills on sorting
out who does what. I would like to improve my team skills with effective time management.!
<br /><br />

**What type of career in CS do you believe you are most suited for? Why this field and not another?
Be specific.**

I would absolutely love a career in computer science oriented more towards IT. I feel like I have a
less common computer science gift where I am good with communication. I enjoy and am good at talking
to people and I like being involved. It makes way for easy implementation in companies and school
systems. I am capable of taking a more standard desk job, but I enjoy being on the face-side of
computers as well. <br /><br />

**What would you like to join? What professional development would you like to be a part of in the
next five years? Be specific and don't consider places of employment.**

I would like to join the American Scientific Affiliation (ASA) for it being "an international
network of Christians in the sciences." I feel as though I have been blessed with my skills as a
Cybersecurity major to be used as a stepping stone to show and glorify Christ in any workplace as
well as any environment. The ASA also states they “environment in which dialogue can flourish and
diverse, even contrasting, ideas can be discussed with courtesy and respect.” It is no secret that
STEM majors are an unreached group who are a blessing to work with. Having more Christians in the
computer science world is an encouragement for work every day. <br /><br />

**What are the ways you can use the skills you have learned in CS to serve your community? Be
specific.**

I have already been able to use my skills I have learned in CS to serve numerous churches and work
alongside the tech team for many ministries. I hope that my skills can help as many people as
possible and create a better and safer networking and browsing experience for all. I have also been
able to help, troubleshoot, prevent/prepare for technical difficulties of friends and families.
